look guys I've made over 800 videos on
my channel we're coming up on 900 pretty
soon and you know what's amazing I said
this to Melissa the other day I don't
think there's a single political
position I've adopted that I now regret
or would retract or change I don't think
there's anything I've said about
politics on the channel that I look back
on and feel ashamed of once in a while
there's a video and I look at the title
and think mm I bet I regret that and
then I click on it now watch me I said
no no I stick with this I totally
support this that happened to me a
couple days ago with one that had a
pretty provocative title but no it made
some good points uh now look I'm gonna
talk a little bit about communism and
how we perceive communism soar deeper
profounder issues as such which will
interest me if I come back and watch
this video ten years now and I've
forgotten the context in which I made
this video but I do need to open this
video by speaking specifically about
Mexi one of my fellow youtubers and a
fellow Canadian vegan Buddhist youtuber
Orly she used to be Buddhist she used to
identify as Buddhist right maybe now
she's in the ex Buddhist Club along with
myself we don't know she deleted those
videos and had to me it's also a
question mark I wonder if that's because
she got deeper and deeper into hardline
communist politics which is where she
had an advice with and she decided that
she was on the side of the people like
the Maoist like Mao Zedong who
persecuted Buddhist and burnt down
Buddhist monasteries and that it wasn't
so cool for it had these videos up and
what she positively identifies with
Buddhism and talks about Buddhist
philosophy I don't know Mexi you tell me
it looks like you you changed your view
on that but look change is part of life
and if Mexi does change I welcome the
change it may be that she at some point
reconsiders her flirtation with hardline
communist politics and if so that's all
for the best
you know I've said that about people who
subscribe to and preached many unsavory
you know ideologies on the Internet
I don't think this is like a tattoo that
you wear for the rest of your life it
sounds to me like you someone who's
toying with a lot of ideas she doesn't
really understand and a lot of history
that soaked in blood and she's doing so
in a really insensitive and crass way
that she should be
sitter but if she does reconsider it's
all for the better and I'm happy for
look guys in terms of what I've said
thus far about Maxie please just do that
most basic thing that sympathy demands
and imagine that the positions were
reversed imagine if you had discovered a
youtubers comment on a channel that had
videos with men in balaclavas men
pointing rifles a channel actively
endorsing terrorist extremism now as it
happens the channel where I discovered
makes these comments was endorsing
violent terrorist extremism of the
Communist kind especially of the Maoist
kind what if it was fascist extremism
what if it was right-wing paramilitaries
what if it word neo-nazis what if it was
Isis what if it was Muslim extremism
well then what would you think if it
wasn't Maxie it was someone who
identified as a moderate Muslim but then
you find them on a Muslim extremist
YouTube channel a channel that openly
endorses mode and making the kind of
comment Maxie made and what kind of
commented Maxie make Maxie identified
herself with a specific political school
of thought with the in communism in the
context of a discussion about what kind
of communes she was or what kind of
Communists she aspired to be that was
the conversation she a fair conversation
for them to have so they were basically
like three communists involved in this
discussion most directly and other
people comment it's YouTube you know
it's an open forum and within that
conversation she identified herself as
Marxist Leninist
Communist Party Marxist Leninist right
now there's a big gap there there's an
incongruous contrast between her saying
that in that context with that meaning
and what I see on her youtube channel
which she makes a video about her
ideological identification and for the
first ten minutes she just completely
waffles and office gates and then
concludes by saying that she refused to
answer the question that she's not going
to identify a particular ideology and
she sent
a reply on Twitter today on my time zone
it was today probably yesterday where
you're at uh saying that she's just a
non-sectarian leftist that she's ie
she's not particularly communist or
anything else
okay well that's quite a contrast that's
quite a contrast Mexi please think
sympathetically how you would regard
that I wouldn't make excuses if I found
a right-wing vegan who let's say they
were moderately right-wing on their own
channel they they explained their
position as moderately right-wing but
then I see them on an extremist channel
a channel that endorses extremism that's
playing you these film clips of the
extremists with the rifles and the
balaclava zone and so on making that
comment explaining where they identify
with them or going or for a Muslim on a
pro Isis channel etc etc I'm not making
excuses for any of these ideologies
these are all ideologies with
fundamentally violent philosophies and
an enormous body count now we live in a
day and age in which people get fired
from their jobs especially school
teachers get fired from their jobs over
Facebook comments over Twitter comments
we kind of have a running series of
these cases in Canada where people post
something vaguely racist vaguely
right-wing on Twitter or Facebook and
then they're fired from their position
or they're suspended or asked to resign
what-have-you it's it's a real question
we have to ask a society it's a series
of very uncomfortable questions that
forces the forces into at what point is
something sufficiently racist or
sufficiently right-wing to justify a
person being fired you know is there a
category for moderates neo-nazis that
are except for society most people say
no they say absolutely not there's no
moderate fascism either you're a fascist
or you're not well why is it that we
have such a vague and permissive
category from moderate communism I
really want to ask that question I
really want to ask it seriously why
when someone reveals themselves to be a
neo-nazi when someone reveals themselves
to make excuses for the terrible
atrocities carried out by Adolf Hitler
in the past we care about it not because
it subtracts something from the past but
because of what it adds to the present
we care about it because it tells us
something about who you are what kind of
person you are morally and ethically
that you would make excuses for these
regimes that you would say these things
about these atrocities right it's a
character judgment on the person here
and now and it matters in terms of its
bearing on their future conduct
ultimately right so are you gonna tell
me it's no big deal
when Noam Chomsky justifies and supports
and makes excuses for the Pol Pot regime
in Cambodia the Khmer Rouge Democratic
Kampuchea
I have an earlier video down on this
channel are you gonna tell me it's no
big deal
when Slavoj ejack says things in support
of Lenin Stalin Mao Zedong some of you
watching this video may not understand
the gravity of a person identifying
themselves as communist Marxist Leninist
specifically as Marxist Leninist within
the Congress tradition I'm going to
break it down for you real quick here
when somebody like Mexi says that what
it means is that they reject revisionism
it means that they reject the period of
relative optimism that happened under
Nikita Khrushchev after the death of
Joseph Stalin when Nikita Khrushchev
basically stood up for the Russian
people and said look it's okay to admit
that there were terrible mistakes that
were terrible atrocities committed under
Joseph Stalin it's okay we don't have to
lie to our own children anymore I'm not
gonna force you to pretend that nobody
who was sent to the gulag was innocent
we can sit down we can have a moment of
national mourning and sobbing and admit
to ourselves the untold millions of
people were killed in many cases for
this no for
secondly good reason at all but in some
cases due to ethnic cleansing in some
cases due to ideological persecution etc
etc I mean to make a short list of
reasons why people were massacred under
Joseph Stalin hard to say Nikita
Khrushchev one of the leaders of Russia
after the death of Joseph Stalin he
stood up and made this statement and Mao
Zedong turned on him and said no you
don't mao zedong said that's revisionism
and revisionism is evil and within china
they commenced massacring everyone who
is revisionist everyone who was
pro-russian including many of their best
technical experts who had flown to
Russia been educated in Russia and flown
back to China by the way it was a
disaster but this began the persecution
of anyone who was pro-russian within
China by the way this was the anti
revisionist campaign and this created
around the world Marxist Leninist
parties within communism they identified
themselves as Communist Party Marxist
Leninist because what this meant this is
a coded term and effective in communist
ideology is that they supported the
continuity ideologically and tactically
and in terms of violence and massacres
and anything else that goes from Lenin
to Stalin to Mao Zedong they were
rejecting the revisions that were being
introduced in the communism by Nikita
Khrushchev they were rejecting the
relatively mild and moderate form of
communism that Nikita Khrushchev was
just kind of trying to start of espouse
right Nikita Khrushchev was in power for
about nine years then he was removed
from power and the only little light of
hope in that incredibly dark you know
regime tyranny went out okay I'm not
saying the key of course Jeff was a good
dictator in some sense there's no such
thing as a good dictator but of course
the contrast to Joseph Stalin it's
tremendous if you identify as Communist
Party Marxist Leninist this is not
equivalent to someone identifying as a
neo-nazi it's equivalent to someone
insisting that they are a Nazi a
classical Nazi
in contrast to a neo-nazi I have not
insulted mexi by pretending that she
doesn't know what she's talking about
when she in that context in the context
of a YouTube channel that openly
endorses and supports armed revolution
terrorism hostage taking kidnapping
violence the most brutal kind by men in
masks men in balaclavas with machine
guns that's the channel she made that
comment on where she identifies not just
his Communists but his Communist Party
Marxist Leninist I'm not going to insult
her intelligence by pretending that she
doesn't know what she's talking about
when she says that in that context that
is every bit as serious as someone
saying no no no they don't consider
themselves a neo-nazi they consider
themselves very specifically a hardcore
hardline classical Nazi who rejects the
revisions of a later period of perhaps
more moderate fascism if such a thing
exists or ever existed just to keep the
parallel straight here all right it's
true not everybody should be fired for
every inappropriate Facebook comment
that's not what we're debating here what
I'd really like my audience to consider
is when you make these kinds of excuses
whether you make them for Mexi a vegan
youtuber like myself or you make them
for Noam Chomsky or you make them for
slave logic really challenge yourself
would you make this excuse for a
hard-line Muslim who flirts with Isis
hardline right winger who flirts with
fascism or Holocaust denial or neo
Nazism would you if not draw this same
line now against communism I've got to
tell you I would not want to be a member
of any vegan organization in Canada that
includes hardline communists it may be a
very difficult distinction to draw it
may force us to ask ourselves if achill
questions but I'd much rather ask those
questions now then be in a position down
the road where we have
in political organizations that are
dominated by communists that was exactly
the situation I was in in the Green
Party in Canada where I had an allegedly
ecological party that was dominated by
hardline communists and far left wingers
rejects from the NDP who were too far to
the left to participate in any
mainstream politics and people who did
to various extents secretly or publicly
endorsed violent revolution